# INDUCTION-PROGRAM
<div align=center>Name: Mannat Sidhu<br>
Father’s Name: Kulpreet Singh Sidhu<br>
Branch: ECE<br>
Registration Number: 25102046<br>
Mobile Number: 99150-68493<br>
Email: mannatsidhu202020@gmail.com<br>
Photograph:<br><br>


 <br><br></div>

# Day 1
## 30 July 2025
Today at **GNDEC, Ludhiana**, I embarked on a journey of new learnings; a new and very important phase of my life that I’ll remember throughout the coming years of my life. A journey in which I’ll achieve a lot and at the end with the insights of my teachers I’ll succeed. <br><br>
The ceremony began at college **Gurudwara Sahib** with recitation of **Japji Sahib**, the bani written by Guru Nanak Dev Ji after whom the college is named, after this, the following shabads were recited :<br><br> <div align=center>
1."ਹੇ ਗੋਬਿੰਦ ਹੇ ਗੋਪਾਲ ਹੇ ਦਇਆਲ ਲਾਲ ॥੧॥ ਰਹਾਉ ॥"<br>
O Lord of the Universe, O Lord of the World, O Dear Merciful Beloved. ||1||Pause||<br><br>
2. "ਇਕ ਅਰਦਾਸਿ ਭਾਟ ਕੀਰਤਿ ਕੀ ਗੁਰ ਰਾਮਦਾਸ ਰਾਖਹੁ ਸਰਣਾਈ ॥੪॥੫੮॥"<br>
Keerat the poet offers this one prayer: O Guru Raam Daas, save me! Take me into Your Sanctuary! ||4||58||<br><br>
3. "ਸੁੰਦਰ ਸੋਭਾ ਲਾਲ ਗੋਪਾਲ ਦਇਆਲ ਕੀ ਅਪਰ ਅਪਾਰਾ ਰਾਮ ॥"<br>
The Glory of the Beloved, Merciful Lord of the Universe is beautiful; He is infinite and without limit.<br><br>
4. "ਤੁਮ ਮਾਤ ਪਿਤਾ ਹਮ ਬਾਰਿਕ ਤੇਰੇ ॥<br>
You are our mother and father; we are Your children.<br><br> </div>
Very beautifully sung by the kirtani jatha, these shabads filled the environment with **calmness** the first day anxiety just vanished; **a perfect start** for the day. Later on, all the students were advised to stay connected to God and visit gurudwara sahib on a regular basis to get the **positive energy**. Ardaas for good future of our batch was recited, followed by **hukumnama** whose main lines were:<br><br>
<div align=center>"ਇਕ ਅਰਦਾਸਿ ਭਾਟ ਕੀਰਤਿ ਕੀ ਗੁਰ ਰਾਮਦਾਸ ਰਾਖਹੁ ਸਰਣਾਈ ॥੪॥੫੮॥“</div><br><br>
This was followed by a <b>small snack and tea break</b> at hostel no. 2 (the gulab jamun was delicious!). After this we all went to the auditorium. The anchor for induction program was <b>Ms. Taranpreet</b>, she opened the function and invited a senior from GNDEC, <b>Mr. Harsimran</b>, who congratulated GNDEC for completing <b>70 years of excellence</b> and extended a warm welcome to the students and gave a power point presentation that included history of GNDEC and what programs, extra curriculars etc. college has to offer.<br>
Next up we had <b>Ex- PAU professor, also an alumni of GNDEC Dr. KD</b> who described the importance of the college and how we all should <b>pay attention to the name after which this college is named.</b> He wanted to convey through his words that staying <b>spiritually connected</b> is also as important as all the other things in life while giving a strong <b>emphasis on “Guru Nanak Dev”</b>.<br><br>
<b>HOD Applied Sciences department, Dr. Harpreet Kaur Grewal Ma’am</b> opened with heartfelt congratulations and also created an <b>enthusiastic environment</b> in the auditorium by making the students clap for their own success upon reaching a great milestone in life. She further elaborated the words of prof. KD and described how to <b>eliminate negativity.</b> She made the children familiar with the thought that there <b>ought to be ups and downs</b> in life but nobody shall feel resented and shall bounce back stronger every time. She laid strong emphasis on the <b>importance of “freedom with boundaries”</b> which I think is a great thought and something I had never heard any other teacher talking about, though I have been practicing it since long.<br><br>
<b>Dr. Sehijpal Singh, Principal at GNDEC</b> extended HOD ma’am’s insights and asked the students to <b>study hard and gave great motivation</b> while welcoming the students into GNDEC family.<br><br>
Next came <b>Sr. Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Ex- Cabinet Minister, Punjab</b> who threw light on how GNDEC has benefitted the children of <b>rural Punjab with its 70% reservation for rural Punjab children.</b> He also gave a brief on his family history and the links of his maternal grandfather to establishment of GNDEC in Ludhiana and how <b>Gill village's donated land</b> was used to establish the college. He also made us aware that his elder brother, who is no more, was also an alumni of GNDEC. He also <b>emphasised the importance of spirituality in one’s life</b> and adviced the students to consider each other as brothers and sisters as soon as they enter the grounds of this college and leave any other thought, intuitions etc. outside of the walls of college and <b>focus on studying hard.</b><br><br>
This was followed by a 1.5 hr lunch break after which we were taken for a <b>department tour</b> where we met a lot of teachers and got to see the labs and classrooms.<br><br>
Overall I think for an active listener like me, this was the <b>best possible arrangement</b> the college could’ve done. Blessings from Guru sahib is the <b>most positive and divine</b> way to start a journey that will determine your success in a few years. Insights from well qualified speakers is one thing I really enjoy; listening to lectures and stories about one’s life is a major interest I have and the program clearly <b>delivered it in an exceptional manner.</b> 
<h1>Day 2</h1>
<h2><b>01/08/2025</b></h2>
The day started with a lecture by <b>Dr. Priya Darshini Ma’am on Universal Human Values,</b> a subject of great importance for engineers because other than technical subjects, one should be aware of <b>how to live in peace and harmony with ourselves from within and hence with our fellows.</b> Ma’am began the lecture with the question <b>“What is happiness?” and “How to be happy?”</b> and everybody responded enthusiastically. She encouraged a <b>two-way communication</b> instead of a one-way lecture. She asked children to be active and participate in whatever is going on. She explained the difference between excitement and happiness, <b>how physical facility, relationships and right understanding within self are the basis of a happy life</b>. She encouraged all of us to choose the career path that takes us towards happiness and prosperity and not only the presence of physical facility as physical facility cannot keep us happy at each and every moment, as quoted by ma’am:<br><br>
<i>“Focus on the things that let you be happy, prosperous and at peace in every moment”</i>  <br><br>
After ma’am, <b>Mr. Arvind Dhingra, Director – STEP and incharge – TAC</b>, addressed the students in his <b>unique and fun way</b>. He was the most successful out of all the speakers in <b>raising the enthusiasm</b> of the whole crowd and making everyone laugh. He started with some introduction and greetings and then proceeded to <b>a few games</b> in which children were asked to volunteer. I volunteered in one of the games and it was really fun. He <b>introduced us to all the clubs and societies</b> the college has to offer. I really liked the way he addressed us and gave us a few insights on <b>personality development.</b><br><br>
Next, we gave English and maths <b>proficiency test</b> and that was the ending of Day 2.<br><br>

# Day 3 
## 04/08/2025
**HOD ma’am** greeted everyone and you know it’s going to be a good day when HOD ma’am starts the day with the **Mool Mantara.** Later on she described why this induction program is necessary and so important for us and why **we should pay attention** towards this program.<br><br>
Then, **Causmic Club** members came on stage and gave details on the activities of their club. This is the kind of club I had thought of joining as per my interests. I take interest in **managing everybody, anchoring and thinking of ideas to make the events fun** and I developed this interest by doing all these things as a part of administrative council at my school. **Ms. Taranpreet**, the **convenor of causmic club** was the one who mainly gave this lecture.<br><br>
Up next, **Dr. Priya Darshini ma’am** joined us for the second time in this induction program to deliver the **second lecture on Universal Human values.** Earlier we had talked about being happy in self and **importance of right understanding within self.** This lecture was related to **stable and happy relationship with our family and friends.** Ma’am had earlier described that to maintain stable relationships and a stable career without stress, one needs to be at peace within themselves. In this leacture she further described that the things that damage our relationship include **false assumptions that lead to misunderstandings that lead to communication gap and hence all this results in uneasy/ uncomfortable feelings and a sense of irritability.**<br><br>
After the break we attended **English lecture by Prof. Aastik Sharma**, he asked us to write down our introduction, strengths and weaknesses and hy we chose this college. Later on he asked students to introduce themselves one by one and told us at the end that what are the key points that one should follow while introducing themselves. Later on, **P2P class** was held in which seniors came and taught us about basic of programming and started with **cpp**.<br><br>
A great day overall. This is the **foundation for our 4 years of college**. They are training us on how to listen and understand, how to interact and how to develop a sitting for long hours which is a **great initiative** and is commendable. The sense of familiarity that is being built in these days would’ve taken weeks otherwise.<br><br>

# Day 4
## 05/08/2025
Today, our classes were to start at 1:30 pm and the first class got cancelled due to a placement drive in the auditorium. So, instead of going to the auditorium we sat in classrooms where **seniors came for interactive sessions.**<br><br>
For the next slot we were asked to go to auditorium for a lecture by **Mrs. Shaffy Makkar ma’am on the topic “Millets: A Superfood”.** This session was very **interesting** because who in this age doesn’t have some health issue going on. In this modern age where people are inclined towards **sacrificing their sleep and meals** to gain a few extra notes, it is of **utmost importance to look after our consumption.** If the **diet keeps degrading,** number of working hours keep increasing and work load takes a huge toll, we can never be at **full potential.** Ignoring our diet and exercise just to become a rat who runs after money is something nobody wants but gets caught up in the cycle and cannot escape afterwards. **Millets play a pivotal roll** in shaping our diets due to their **rich protein and mineral** content. Ma’am had described how to inculcate **millets into our routine diet, cooking methods and the bad impact of wheat and rice** (negative millets) on our daily being. She told us about the types of millets, what nutrients they a provide etc. It was a great lecture and very insightful if someone wants to **inculcate veg protein** in their diet and receive the **maximum amount of dietary fibre.**<br><br>

# Day 5
## 06/08/2025
Day started at auditorium with **chanting of Mool Mantra** followed by **Dr. Parminder Singh, Dean student welfare.** He made us aware about **all the societies, clubs and amenities that college offers.** This session was very **informative** and increased the familiarity with college.<br><br>
**Mr. Manpreet Singh** joined us next. He gave a very interesting and insightful lecture on the topic **“Fitness for Engineers”.** He described the bad impact of **unhealthy diet and drug addiction** on youth. He requested all the students to **never touch alcohol** or any other substances that pollute our body. Later on, a lot of students asked their queries about usage of **whey protein and steroids**, to which sir gave very clear and **powerful insights.** He further told us why **exercising** as engineers is of **utmost importance** along with a good diet while telling his **own story of how he rose from ashes** to this stage.<br><br>
**Brigadier P. S. Cheema** sir addressed the students after a **short NCC lecture.** He used great **poetry lines** about patriotism and humility to convey his words that **touched our hearts.** He also motivated us to join NCC and raised a few concerns on the direction towards which today’s youth is drifting.<br><br>
We had a **physics lecture by Prof. Amarjot Kaur** and to end the day **Mr. Gautam from ME-D4** gave us a lecture on **automobiles** and described in detail how automobiles and motorsports include the usage of all the streams of engineering. **CSE** to get the performance graphs through the sensors made by **ECE** engineers. Roads well engineered by **CE’s** to run the cars designed by **ME’s**.<br><br>
My favourite part of the day was lecture by Mr. Manpreet Singh, it was **truly inspiring** and motivated the students to **listen to what their heart says** and to work in that direction.<br><br>

# Day 6
## 07/08/2025
The day started with classes today. First lecture was by **Prof. Komalpreet Kaur**, she started with some basic introduction about the **lasers chapter** and it was a wonderful session, I understood everything so well, she **truly is a great teacher.** <br><br>
**Prof. Sandeep Kaur Gill** took our **maths** lecture. We discussed about **differentiation and basic calculus from class 12** and then later she proceeded to ask conceptual questions about differentiation and I answered like 4 or 5 questions, all correct. I realised in class that even if I might’ve scored less in maths in boards but I have a really good grasp of some core concepts that even high scorers in the classroom failed to answer.<br><br>
After an hourlong break, we headed to the auditorium, The students were addressed by **Dr. Lakhvir Singh Khana, in-charge of centre for multifaceted learning (CML)**, who began with applauding the **enthusiasm of students** and their choice of core branches. He proceeded to explain that CML conducts all **type of activities** except cultural and sports related events to push the **holistic development** of students. He interacted a lot with students and the lecture didn’t even feel like a lecture, it felt like a talk with an individual who wants to do good for us; truly inspiring. At the end of his lecture, he told us all about **NPTEL’s courses in collaboration with the original 7 IIT’s**, that will prove to be really beneficial for us. The session was concluded after giving students a demo on how to make a profile on **Swayam** website to join NPTEL’s courses.<br><br>
**Dr. Jasvir Singh Grewal, in-charge of NSS** hosted the concluding event. This event started with recitation of a shabad written by **Guru Arjan Dev Ji in raag Kalyan:**<br><br>
<div align=center>"ਮੇਰੇ ਲਾਲਨ ਕੀ ਸੋਭਾ ॥"<br></div>
"O, the Wondrous Glory of my Beloved!"<br><br></div>

Very beautifully sung by the students, it filled our hearts with **peace** and after recitation of this shabad, sir described that this feeling of peace is what you get when **you work for others and help them**. He described that this exactly, is the goal of NSS and then the students proceeded to perform a **beautiful Sanskrit raag** with the wording:<br><br>
<div align=center>“रैना बीती जाये, श्याम ना आये |”<br><br></div>

This was followed by a video from **Midway island.** The video described that this island situated in the **heart of pacific was 3000 miles from the continent closest to it.** This video began with showing diversity of birds flying across the vast landscape happily cooing their birdsong on the other hand, towards the end of this video, it was shown how water pollution due to plastic and e-waste affected these birds. Clips of 10-20 plastic caps being taken out of dead bodies of the birds were shown and at the end sir told us that this is what we want to prevent, **the goal of NSS is to reverse the environmental damage** being committed by human beings. Later on, we played a **fun game** where the auditorium was divided into two sections and one child was chosen from each section. Both of them were invited on the stage and were asked to make each other laugh within 60 seconds but unfortunately none succeeded although we had a lot of fun. After this, two members of the NSS club itself gave **a performance that made the whole crowd** chuckle.**<br><br>

After the first day, this was the second-best day of this orientation program with a <b>perfect balance of fun, laughter, visions and insights.</b><br><br>





